B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Algorithm","A set of well-defined rules or processes for solving a problem in a finite number of steps.","In mathematics and computer science an algorithm (originating from al-Khwārizmī the famous Persian mathematician Muḥammad ibn Mūsā al-Khwārizmī) is a step-by-step procedure for calculations. Algorithms are used for calculation data processing and automated reasoning. More precisely an algorithm is an effective method expressed as a finite list of well-defined instructions for calculating a function. Starting from an initial state and initial input (perhaps empty) the instructions describe a computation that when executed will proceed through a finite number of well-defined successive states eventually producing 'output' and terminating at a final ending state. The transition from one state to the next is not necessarily deterministic; some algorithms known as randomized algorithms incorporate random input.  A partial formalization of the concept began with attempts to solve the Entscheidungsproblem (the 'decision problem') posed by David Hilbert in 1928.","Algorithm","pageTitle:Algorithm",6,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Analog Computer","A computer that operates on data by measuring changes in continuous physical variables such as voltage resistance and rotation. Contrast with Digital Computer.","An analog computer is a form of computer that uses the continuously changeable aspects of physical phenomena such as electrical mechanical or hydraulic quantities to model the problem being solved. In contrast digital computers represent varying quantities symbolically as their numerical values change. Mechanical analog computers were very important in gun fire control in World War II The Korean War and well past the Vietnam War; they were made in significant numbers. The development of transistors made electronic analog computers practical and until digital computers had developed sufficiently they continued to be commonly used in science and industry. Analog computers can have a very wide range of complexity. Slide rules and nomographs are the simplest while naval gunfire control computers and large hybrid digital/analog computers were among the most complicated.","Analog_computer","Analog Computer",6,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Applet","A small limited-purpose application program or small independent module of a larger application program.","In computing an applet is any small application that performs one specific task that runs within the scope of a larger program often as a plug-in. An applet typically also refers to Java applets i.e. programs written in the Java programming language that are included in a web page. The word Applet was first used in 1990 in PC Magazine.","Applet","pageTitle:Applet",5,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Application Development","See Systems Development.","A software development kit (SDK or 'devkit') is typically a set of software development tools that allows for the creation of applications for a certain software package software framework hardware platform computer system video game console operating system or similar platform. It may be something as simple as an application programming interface (API) in the form of some files to interface to a particular programming language or include sophisticated hardware to communicate with a certain embedded system. Common tools include debugging aids and other utilities often presented in an integrated development environment (IDE). SDKs also frequently include sample code and supporting technical notes or other supporting documentation to help clarify points from the primary reference material. SDKs may have attached licenses that make them unsuitable for building software intended to be developed under an incompatible license.","Software_development_kit","Application Development",3,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Application Generator","A software package that supports the development of an application through an interactive terminal dialogue where the programmer/analyst defines screens reports computations and data structures.","An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to computer programmers for software development. An IDE normally consists of: Some IDEs contain compiler interpreter or both such as Microsoft Visual Studio and Eclipse; others do not such as SharpDevelop and Lazarus. The boundary between an integrated development environment and other parts of the broader software development environment is not well-defined. Sometimes a version control system and various tools are integrated to simplify the construction of a GUI. Many modern IDEs also have a class browser an object inspector and a class hierarchy diagram for use with object-oriented software development.","Integrated_development_environment","Application Generator",4,1
