B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Analog Computer","A computer that operates on data by measuring changes in continuous physical variables such as voltage resistance and rotation. Contrast with Digital Computer.","An analog computer is a form of computer that uses the continuously changeable aspects of physical phenomena such as electrical mechanical or hydraulic quantities to model the problem being solved. In contrast digital computers represent varying quantities symbolically as their numerical values change. Mechanical analog computers were very important in gun fire control in World War II The Korean War and well past the Vietnam War; they were made in significant numbers. The development of transistors made electronic analog computers practical and until digital computers had developed sufficiently they continued to be commonly used in science and industry. Analog computers can have a very wide range of complexity. Slide rules and nomographs are the simplest while naval gunfire control computers and large hybrid digital/analog computers were among the most complicated.","Analog_computer","Analog Computer",6,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Applet","A small limited-purpose application program or small independent module of a larger application program.","In computing an applet is any small application that performs one specific task that runs within the scope of a larger program often as a plug-in. An applet typically also refers to Java applets i.e. programs written in the Java programming language that are included in a web page. The word Applet was first used in 1990 in PC Magazine.","Applet","pageTitle:Applet",5,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Application Development","See Systems Development.","A software development kit (SDK or 'devkit') is typically a set of software development tools that allows for the creation of applications for a certain software package software framework hardware platform computer system video game console operating system or similar platform. It may be something as simple as an application programming interface (API) in the form of some files to interface to a particular programming language or include sophisticated hardware to communicate with a certain embedded system. Common tools include debugging aids and other utilities often presented in an integrated development environment (IDE). SDKs also frequently include sample code and supporting technical notes or other supporting documentation to help clarify points from the primary reference material. SDKs may have attached licenses that make them unsuitable for building software intended to be developed under an incompatible license.","Software_development_kit","Application Development",3,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Application Generator","A software package that supports the development of an application through an interactive terminal dialogue where the programmer/analyst defines screens reports computations and data structures.","An integrated development environment (IDE) is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to computer programmers for software development. An IDE normally consists of: Some IDEs contain compiler interpreter or both such as Microsoft Visual Studio and Eclipse; others do not such as SharpDevelop and Lazarus. The boundary between an integrated development environment and other parts of the broader software development environment is not well-defined. Sometimes a version control system and various tools are integrated to simplify the construction of a GUI. Many modern IDEs also have a class browser an object inspector and a class hierarchy diagram for use with object-oriented software development.","Integrated_development_environment","Application Generator",4,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Application Portfolio","A planning tool used to evaluate present and proposed information systems applications in terms of the amount of revenue or assets invested in information systems that support major business functions and processes.","IT Application Portfolio Management (APM) is a practice that has emerged in mid to large size Information Technology (IT) organizations since the mid 1990s. Application Portfolio Management attempts to use the lessons of financial portfolio management to justify and measure the financial benefits of each application in comparison to the costs of the application's maintenance and operations.","Application_Portfolio_Management","Application Portfolio",4,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Applications Architecture","A conceptual planning framework in which business applications of information technology are designed as an integrated architecture of enterprise systems that support strategic business initiatives and cross-functional business processes.","An applications architecture describes the structure and behaviour of applications used in a business focused on how they interact with each other and with users. It is focused on the data consumed and produced by applications rather than their internal structure. In application portfolio management the applications are usually mapped to business functions and to application platform technologies. It is usually one of several architecture domains that form the pillars of an enterprise architecture or solution architecture. It is often confused with application architecture.","Applications_architecture","Applications Architecture",5,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Application Server","System software that provides a middleware interface between an operating system and the application programs of users.","An application server is a server which provides software applications with services such as security data services transaction support load balancing and management of large distributed systems. The term is often used for web servers which support the Java Platform Enterprise Edition however its use isn't restricted to Java.","Application_server","Application Server",5,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Application Software","Programs that specify the information processing activities required for the completion of specific tasks of computer users. Examples are electronic spreadsheet and word processing programs or inventory or payroll programs.","Application software also known as an application or an app is computer software designed to help the user to perform specific tasks. Examples include enterprise software accounting software office suites graphics software and media players. Many application programs deal principally with documents. Apps may be bundled with the computer and its system software or may be published separately. Some users are satisfied with the bundled apps and need never install one. Application software is contrasted with system software and middleware which manage and integrate a computer's capabilities but typically do not directly apply in the performance of tasks that benefit the user. The system software serves the application which in turn serves the user. Similar relationships apply in other fields. For example a shopping mall does not provide the merchandise a shopper is seeking but provides space and services for retailers that serve the shopper.","Application_software","Application Software",9,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Arithmetic-Logic Unit (ALU)","The unit of a computing system containing the circuits that perform arithmetic and logical operations.","In computing an arithmetic and logic unit (ALU) is a digital circuit that performs arithmetic and logical operations. The ALU is a fundamental building block of the central processing unit of a computer and even the simplest microprocessors contain one for purposes such as maintaining timers. The processors found inside modern CPUs and graphics processing units (GPUs) accommodate very powerful and very complex ALUs; a single component may contain a number of ALUs. Mathematician John von Neumann proposed the ALU concept in 1945 when he wrote a report on the foundations for a new computer called the EDVAC. Research into ALUs remains an important part of computer science falling under Arithmetic and logic structures in the ACM Computing Classification System.","Arithmetic_logic_unit","Arithmetic-Logic Unit",10,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Executive Information System (EIS)","An information system that provides strategic information tailored to the needs of executives and other decision makers.","An executive information system (EIS) is a type of management information system intended to facilitate and support the information and decision-making needs of senior executives by providing easy access to both internal and external information relevant to meeting the strategic goals of the organization. It is commonly considered as a specialized form of decision support system (DSS).  The emphasis of EIS is on graphical displays and easy-to-use user interfaces. They offer strong reporting and drill-down capabilities. In general EIS are enterprise-wide DSS that help top-level executives analyze compare and highlight trends in important variables so that they can monitor performance and identify opportunities and problems. EIS and data warehousing technologies are converging in the marketplace. In recent years the term EIS has lost popularity in favor of business intelligence (with the sub areas of reporting analytics and digital dashboards).","Executive_information_system","Executive Information System",8,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Executive Support System (ESS)","An executive information system with additional capabilities including data analysis decision support electronic mail and personal productivity tools.","An executive information system (EIS) is a type of management information system intended to facilitate and support the information and decision-making needs of senior executives by providing easy access to both internal and external information relevant to meeting the strategic goals of the organization. It is commonly considered as a specialized form of decision support system (DSS).  The emphasis of EIS is on graphical displays and easy-to-use user interfaces. They offer strong reporting and drill-down capabilities. In general EIS are enterprise-wide DSS that help top-level executives analyze compare and highlight trends in important variables so that they can monitor performance and identify opportunities and problems. EIS and data warehousing technologies are converging in the marketplace. In recent years the term EIS has lost popularity in favor of business intelligence (with the sub areas of reporting analytics and digital dashboards).","Executive_information_system","Executive Support System",7,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Expert System (ES)","A computer-based information system that uses its knowledge about a specific complex application area to act as an expert consultant to users. The system consists of a knowledge base and software modules that perform inferences on the knowledge and communicate answers to a user’s questions.","In artificial intelligence an expert system is a computer system that emulates the decision-making ability of a human expert. Expert systems are designed to solve complex problems by reasoning about knowledge like an expert and not by following the procedure of a developer as is the case in conventional programming. The first expert systems were created in the 1970s and then proliferated in the 1980s. Expert systems were among the first truly successful forms of AI software.  An expert system has a unique structure different from traditional programs. It is divided into two parts one fixed independent of the expert system: the inference engine and one variable: the knowledge base. To run an expert system the engine reasons about the knowledge base like a human. In the 80s a third part appeared: a dialog interface to communicate with users. This ability to conduct a conversation with users was later called 'conversational'.","Expert_system","Expert System",10,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Extranet","A network that links selected resources of a company with its customers suppliers and other business partners using the Internet or private networks to link the organizations’ intranets.","An extranet is a computer network that allows controlled access from the outside for specific business or educational purposes. In a business-to-business context an extranet can be viewed as an extension of an organization's intranet that is extended to users outside the organization usually partners vendors and suppliers in isolation from all other Internet users. In contrast business-to-consumer (B2C) models involve known servers of one or more companies communicating with previously unknown consumer users. An extranet is similar to a DMZ in that it provides access to needed services for channel partners without granting access to an organization's entire network.","Extranet","pageTitle:Extranet",10,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Fault Tolerant Systems","Computers that have multiple central processors peripherals and system software and that are able to continue operations even if there is a major hardware or software failure.","Fault-tolerance or graceful degradation is the property that enables a system (often computer-based) to continue operating properly in the event of the failure of (or one or more faults within) some of its components. If its operating quality decreases at all the decrease is proportional to the severity of the failure as compared to a naïvely-designed system in which even a small failure can cause total breakdown. Fault-tolerance is particularly sought-after in high-availability or life-critical systems. Fault-tolerance is not just a property of individual machines; it may also characterise the rules by which they interact. For example the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is designed to allow reliable two-way communication in a packet-switched network even in the presence of communications links which are imperfect or overloaded.","Fault-tolerant_system","Fault Tolerant Systems",8,1
B0051CC6M2,ffa235bb,"Faxing (Facsimile)","Transmitting and receiving images of documents over the telephone or computer networks using PCs or fax machines.","Fax (short for facsimile) sometimes called telecopying is the telephonic transmission of scanned printed material (both text and images) normally to a telephone number connected to a printer or other output device. The original document is scanned with a fax machine (or a telecopier) which processes the contents (text or images) as a single fixed graphic image converting it into a bitmap and then transmitting it through the telephone system. The receiving fax machine reconverts the coded image printing a paper copy. Before digital technology became widespread for many decades the scanned data was transmitted as analog. Although businesses usually maintain some kind of fax capability the technology has faced increasing competition from Internet-based alternatives.","Fax","Faxing",8,1
