B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Murmur","Sound made by turbulent blood flow through the heart.","Murmur usually means: It can also refer to:","Murmur","pageTitle:Murmur",1,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Normal sinus rhythm (NSR)","Normal heart rhythm in which impulses originate in the sinus node and travel through normal conduction pathways without delay.","The normal intrinsic electrical conduction of the heart allows electrical propagation to be transmitted from the Sinoatrial Node through both atria and forward to the Atrioventricular Node. Normal/baseline physiology allows further propagation from the AV node to the ventricle or Purkinje Fibers and respective bundle branches and subdivisions/fascicles. Both the SA and AV nodes stimulate the Myocardium. Time ordered stimulation of the myocardium allows efficient contraction of all four chambers of the heart thereby allowing selective blood perfusion through both the lungs and systemic circulation.","Electrical_conduction_system_of_the_heart","Normal sinus rhythm",5,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Oxyhemoglobin","The combined form of hemoglobin and oxygen; found in arterial blood it carries oxygen to body tissues.","Hemoglobin (also spelled haemoglobin and abbreviated Hb or Hgb) is the iron-containing oxygen-transport metalloprotein in the red blood cells of all vertebrates (with the exception of the fish family Channichthyidae ) as well as the tissues of some invertebrates. Hemoglobin in the blood carries oxygen from the respiratory organs (lungs or gills) to the rest of the body (i.e. the tissues) where it releases the oxygen to burn nutrients to provide energy to power the functions of the organism and collects the resultant carbon dioxide to bring it back to the respiratory organs to be dispensed from the organism. In mammals the protein makes up about 97% of the red blood cells' dry content and around 35% of the total content (including water). Hemoglobin has an oxygen binding capacity of 1.34 ml O2 per gram of hemoglobin which increases the total blood oxygen capacity seventy-fold compared to dissolved oxygen in blood.","Hemoglobin","Oxyhemoglobin",6,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Pulse deficit","Condition in which the radial pulse is less than the apical pulse indicating weak inefficient left ventricular contractions.","In medicine one's pulse represents the tactile arterial palpation of the heartbeat by trained fingertips. The pulse may be palpated in any place that allows an artery to be compressed against a bone such as at the neck (carotid artery) at the wrist (radial artery) behind the knee (popliteal artery) on the inside of the elbow (brachial artery) and near the ankle joint (posterior tibial artery). The pulse can also be measured by listening to the heart beat directly (auscultation) traditionally using a stethoscope.","Pulse","Pulse deficit",2,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Rehabilitation","The process of learning to live to one’s maximum potential with a chronic impairment and its resultant functional disability.","Rehabilitation or rehab may refer to:","Rehabilitation","pageTitle:Rehabilitation",1,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Rheumatic heart disease (RHD)","Slowly progressive valvular deformity following acute or repeated attacks of rheumatic fever; characterized by rigid and deformed valve leaflets fused valve commissures and fibrosis of chordae tendineae.","Rheumatic fever is an inflammatory disease that occurs following a Streptococcus pyogenes infection such as streptococcal pharyngitis or scarlet fever. Believed to be caused by antibody cross-reactivity that can involve the heart joints skin and brain the illness typically develops two to three weeks after a streptococcal infection. Acute rheumatic fever commonly appears in children between the ages of 6 and 15 with only 20% of first-time attacks occurring in adults. The illness is so named because of its similarity in presentation to rheumatism.","Rheumatic_fever","Rheumatic heart disease",7,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Sex chromosomes","The chromosomes X or Y that indicate gender.","A sex-determination system is a biological system that determines the development of sexual characteristics in an organism. Most sexual organisms have two sexes. Occasionally there are hermaphrodites in place of one or both sexes. There are also some species that are only one sex due to parthenogenesis the act of a female reproducing without fertilization. In many cases sex determination is genetic: males and females have different alleles or even different genes that specify their sexual morphology. In animals this is often accompanied by chromosomal differences. Determination genetically is generally through chromosome combinations of XY ZW XO ZO or haplodiploid. Sexual differentiation is generally started by a main gene a sex locus then a multitude of other genes follow in a domino effect. In other cases sex is determined by environmental variables (such as temperature) or social variables (the size of an organism relative to other members of its population).","Sex-determination_system","Sex chromosomes",2,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Sprue","A chronic primary disorder of the small intestine in which the absorption of nutrients particularly fats is impaired.","A sprue may refer to:","Sprue","pageTitle:Sprue",1,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Thrill","Palpable vibration over the precordium or an artery.","Jacqueline Jill 'Jackie' Collins (born 4 October 1937 ) is an English novelist. She is the younger sister of actress Joan Collins. She has written 28 novels all of which have appeared on the New York Times bestsellers list. In total her books have sold over 400 million copies and have been translated into 40 languages. Eight of her novels have been adapted for the screen either as films or television mini-series.","Jackie_Collins","Thrill",1,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Thromboembolus","A thrombus that breaks loose from the vessel wall.","A pulmonary embolism (PE) is a blockage of the main artery of the lung or one of its branches by a substance that has travelled from elsewhere in the body through the bloodstream (embolism). PE most commonly results from deep vein thrombosis (a blood clot in the deep veins of the legs or pelvis) that breaks off and migrates to the lung a process termed venous thromboembolism (VTE). A small proportion of cases are due to the embolization of air fat talc in drugs of intravenous drug abusers or amniotic fluid. The obstruction of the blood flow through the lungs and the resultant pressure on the right ventricle of the heart lead to the symptoms and signs of PE. The risk of PE is increased in various situations such as cancer or prolonged bed rest.  Symptoms of pulmonary embolism include difficulty breathing chest pain on inspiration and palpitations. Clinical signs include low blood oxygen saturation and cyanosis rapid breathing and a rapid heart rate.","Pulmonary_embolism","Thromboembolus",2,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Tolerance","A cumulative state in which a particular dose of a chemical elicits a smaller response than before. With increased tolerance the individual needs higher and higher doses to obtain the desired effect.","Tolerance or toleration a fair objective and permissive attitude toward those whose opinions practices race religion nationality etc. differ from one's own; freedom from bigotry. Tolerance tolerant or toleration may also refer to:","Tolerance","pageTitle:Tolerance",1,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Trousseau’s sign","Contraction of the hand and fingers (carpal spasm) in response to occlusion of the blood supply by a blood pressure cuff; caused by decreased blood calcium levels.","Trousseau sign is the name of two distinct phenomena observed in clinical medicine.","Trousseau_sign","Trousseau’s sign",2,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Vancomycin intermediate-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (VISA)","A form of S. aureus with intermediate resistance to vancomycin.","Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a bacterium responsible for several difficult-to-treat infections in humans. It is also called multidrug-resistant Staphylococcus aureus and oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (ORSA). MRSA is any strain of Staphylococcus aureus that has developed resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics which include the penicillins (methicillin dicloxacillin nafcillin oxacillin etc.) and the cephalosporins. Strains unable to resist these antibiotics are classified as methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus or MSSA. The development of such resistance does not cause the organism to be more intrinsically virulent than strains of Staphylococcus aureus that have no antibiotic resistance but resistance does make MRSA infection more difficult to treat with standard types of antibiotics and thus more dangerous.","Methicillin-resistant_Staphylococcus_aureus","Vancomycin intermediate-resistant Staphylococcus aureus",3,0
B006GIWMI8,d37cd765,"Volatile acids","Acids eliminated from the body as a gas.","Carbonic acid is the organic compound with the formula H2CO3 (equivalently OC(OH)2). It is also a name sometimes given to solutions of carbon dioxide in water (carbonated water) because such solutions contain small amounts of H2CO3. Carbonic acid forms two kinds of salts the carbonates and the bicarbonates. It is a weak acid.","Carbonic_acid","Volatile acids",1,0